SwarmNL milestone 2 revision (#2363)
w3f/Grants-Program: applications/swarm-nl.md

### Milestone 2

- **Estimated Duration:** 2.5 months (10 weeks)
- **FTE:** 1.5

> - **Costs:** $36,000

Author: M1 has been paid already. 36k is for M2. Does this clarify?

> - **Costs:** $36,000

Reviewer: The application doc should reflect the costs of each milestone, as well as the total cost correctly. The fact that M1 has been paid already doesn't have an impact on this. Could you please rectify the amounts?

> - **Costs:** $36,000

Author: Ah understood now, updated in https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/pull/2363/commits/5b524d4f47af31f52e86e88ff03209b7f1743a55

Research objective: to find the most efficient implementation to scale swarms, using state of the art research (estimated: 2 weeks).

**1 week:**

- Fault tolerance algorithms and their implementations
- Sharding algorithms
- Cooperation / coordination algorithms

**1 week:**

- Report of findings
- Comparative analysis and final decisions based on our findings for the direction of our implementation

#### 2. Sharding and data forwarding implementation

**A. 3 weeks: sharding and data forwarding**

- 1 week: scaffolding and draft implementation
- 2 weeks: review, testing and improvements

**B. 2 weeks: writing integration-like tests to demonstrate the algorithms at scale**

- 1 week: benchmarking network behavior
- 1 week: documentation and results

#### 3. IPFS integration

**Estimated 1 week:**

- Implementation of all IPFS features for a swarm / testing
- Documentation and guides to easily use the IPFS features (tweak library accordingly if necessary)

#### 4. Extendability of library

**Estimated 2 weeks:**

- Provide capabilities to take snapshots of networking state and send to remote server including logs
- Testing and documentation
- Touching up and miscellaneous

> This brings us to total estimation of 10 weeks with a 1.5 FTE. With hourly rates revised to 60 USD/hr at 40 hour per week, our estimations come to a 2400 USD (1 FTE) + 1200 (0.5 FTE). This brings the total to 36,000 USD for Milestone 2, to fund the work of a Lead Engineer + Protocol Researcher (Adedeji) and Project Lead + Developer (Sacha) required to ship the libraries' features for this milestone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This brings us to total estimation of 10 weeks with a 1.5 FTE. With hourly rates revised to 60 USD/hr at 40 hour per week, our estimations come to a 24000 USD (1 FTE) + 12000 (0.5 FTE). This brings the total to 36,000 USD for Milestone 2, to fund the work of a Lead Engineer + Protocol Researcher (Adedeji) and Project Lead + Developer (Sacha) required to ship the libraries' features for this milestone.
```
